---
layout: post
title:  "Five closets"
date:   2018-04-23 22:10:00 -0800
background: '/images/lighthouse.jpg'
subtitle: "A story of "
---

Closets are blessings. More the merrier. At least that is what I used to believe when I moved into my new apartment. My
cat, Igloo also chose to move with in me. She is white with gray patches and when she sits she folds her legs into the
oblivion, thus resembling an igloo (yes, I have strange imaginations). I will not say that I chose this one bedroom
apartment because there were five closets in it but at the time of signing the lease, I definitely did not think that I
will have to worry about storage.

This apartment occupied one of the corners of the building and hence had more windows. This was also probably the
reason I liked this apartment more. There was everything to love about this new place. The greenery outside, just right
amount of people in the neighborhood (too many bothers me and too less often leads my brain into the rabbit hole where
I start questioning life), scenes of fluffy and hairless (read humans) animals running around, sound of train, etcetera.

It wasn't until the night when that little 4.9 earthquake shook the city awake, I started believing a little more on my
conjecture that my apartment was too good for the price. The earthquake, apart from waking my cat and me up, also brought
some excitement into the otherwise boring weekday-night of the city people. You don't need much of an excuse to bring
people from my city to streets and get drinks or two. Heck, they would come down if someone shouted about a rat dying
of a rat-poison. Earthquake at 3 AM was an overkill. For a while, I read tweets and news about the earthquake . And then I went on to read how earthquake happen and
before I realized, one thing led to another and I was 10 mysterious phone numbers that you shouldn't dial. Igloo was
lying in her cat-tree beside my desk. And that is when it happened.

"Knock"... "Knock"... "Knock"... "Knock"... "Knock"...

Five knocks, each separated by a seconds.
