---
layout: post
title:  "Training RNNG's Generative parser"
date:   2018-04-18 22:10:00 -0800
background: '/images/lighthouse.jpg'
subtitle: "Discriminative parser comes to the rescue"
---

In the Recurrent Neural Network Grammars [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1602.07776), two parsers are discussed:
Discriminative and Generative. Both parsers take a sequence of terminals (or tokens) $$ \mathbf{x} $$
and produce a parse tree $$ \mathbf{y} $$. The parse tree, which is generated in a top-down fashion, is defined as
a sequence of actions. Each action is one of the following:
* NT(X): Parser introduces a non-terminal onto the stack.
* SHIFT: Parser removes a terminal from the buffer and places it on the top of the stack.
* REDUCE: Parser decides that the top-most subtree on the stack is complete and moves on to complete the next open
non-terminal on the stack.

Taking the example from the paper, the parse tree: `(S (NP The hungry cat) (VP meows))`
is equivalent to the sequence of actions $$ \mathbf{a} $$: `NT(S) NT(NP) SHIFT(The) SHIFT(hungry) SHIFT(cat) REDUCE NT(VP) SHIFT(meows)
REDUCE REDUCE`.

The probability of this parse tree is derived as:

\\[ p(\mathbf{y} \| \mathbf{x}) = \prod_{a_t \in \mathbf{a}} p(a_t \| \mathbf{a_{<t}}) \\]

With the generative model, the parser generates terminals (to an output buffer) using a GEN action, instead of
consuming them from the buffer. If it were to generate the parse tree in the given example, the sequence of actions
(which we shall denote by $$ \mathbf{b} $$ for the sake of clarity) would
look like: `NT(S) NT(NP) GEN(The) GEN(hungry) GEN(cat) REDUCE NT(VP) GEN(meows) REDUCE REDUCE`. An important thing to be noted is
the probability of this _generated_ parse tree, which is fundamentally different from the version with SHIFT actions.
Here, the probability of GEN action includes the probability of taking the action itself and also the probability of
generating that specific terminal from the vocabulary. The probability of the generated parse tree is therefore defined as
(note that now it is the probability of the joint distribution as $$ \mathbf{x} $$ is being generated in the process):

\\[ p(\mathbf{y}, \mathbf{x}) = \prod_{b_t \in \mathbf{b}} p(b_t \| \mathbf{b_{<t}}) \\]

Training the discriminative parser is straight forward in the paper. It is the generative model which I felt was little
difficult to understand. And from what I have understood (after going through some references), given the pre-trained
discriminative parser and an input sentence $$ \mathbf{x} $$, the generative parser model is trained as follows:
1. Use the discriminative parser to generate $$ n $$ best trees. Let us denote them as the set $$ \Upsilon'(\mathbf{x}) $$.
This is an approximation as getting all the parse trees $$ \Upsilon(\mathbf{x}) $$ for the sentence is not tractable.
2. Since there is one to one correspondence between the discriminative and the generative parse tree (SHIFT
action is replaced by the GEN action), each tree in $$ \Upsilon'(\mathbf{x}) $$ can be transformed to its generative version.
This transformation also brings in a change in the likelihood of each parse tree. Since the generative parse tree,
on account of having GEN actions, also includes probabilities of generating tokens given the state of the parse tree and
the vocabulary, we effectively get $$ p(\mathbf{y},\mathbf{x}) $$ for each transformed tree in $$ \Upsilon'(\mathbf{x}) $$
as opposed to $$ p(\mathbf{y}|\mathbf{x}) $$ in their untransformed versions.
3. The target for the generative model training is the tree in $$ \Upsilon'(\mathbf{x}) $$ that has the highest
$$ p(\mathbf{y},\mathbf{x}) $$.

As stated in the paper, the generative parser achieves better performance than the discriminative parser. This is
attributed to the fact that the generative parser being dependent on only stack and the history of actions, has less
"unstructured information" to get confused from. The follow-up [paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.05774) attests it by
demonstrating that the stack is indeed the most important information source (in fact, the parser performs better by using
stack alone than all the three data-structures combined).
